Background:

Online gaming is an enormous industry that grows each year. As the audience for online multiplayer games has gotten bigger, the technology to meaningfully match these players 
has lagged behind. Often times players, especially in competitive settings, are matched using game metrics and statistics in order to have players of a similar skill caliber 
play together. As this has become commonplace, players find themselves matched with people who appear only as a username. With a lack of personal connection, some players 
engage in negative communication which results in a lower quality gaming experience for all.

 

Project Goal:

This team project aims to resolve existing matchmaking issues by matching players on criteria beyond simply skill. The end product will collect more information about a player, 
including parameters related to play-style, preferences and attitude. Thus, it will reintroduce a human component to online teammates and help to brighten a gamer’s horizon 
with improved gaming experiences. Taking data from in-game sources and crossing it with player and user generated behavior profiles, your prospect system should match players 
with teammates that suit both their skill and behavior. In addition, your system should enable users to find players from other games, add them as friends, and form groups; 
all with like-minded players that they find in matchmaking.

 

Assumptions/Constrains:

  1. Players want a personal level added to gaming, given that such a system would reduce hostile and volatile communication, also while having teammates of a similar skill 
      factor.
  2. Players would be willing to use a third-party app to match-make across a multitude of games.
  3. The data for player skill and behavior can be used in matchmaking in a timely manner.
  4. While there is much data for matchmaking possible through open-sources API’s, some data may not be accessible and may reduce the capabilities of your system’s ability to 
      match players in certain games.
 


Requirements: 

  1. The final product should be a Web App with the technology stack of your own choosing.
  2. Your Web App should be dynamic and use Web Services and information visualization.
  3. You are required to leverage Scrum practice in small teams as you build out a working prototype to address the goal of this project.
  4. The following tools are either required or have proved very, very useful to previous teams in this course.
        * Required: a github account 
        * Required: one of these three project management tools:
                    + Azure DevOps platform (which comes with great Agile tools)--to get started Create a project 
                    + Trello -- a taskboard to help developers and clients manage tasks 
                    + Jira -- another great tool.
        * Recommended: Slack -- a very popular team messaging tool; see the first two chapters of a good tutorial at Tidbits
 
 

Project tasks/deliverables:  

  1. Project part 1: First Sprint (due on 02/07/2021)

  2. Project part 2: Second Sprint (due on 02/28/2021)

  3. Project part 3: Third and final Sprint (due on 03/31/2021)

  4. Project part 4: Presentation&Demo (due on 05/05/2021)

 

Notes (important–make sure to read carefully):

  1. Each team must designate a Product Owner, responsible for the product vision as well as the content of each sprint, and a Scrum Master responsible for the overall process.
  2. All submissions are at a team-based level. This means only the Scrum Master from each group will submit the deliverables on the behalf of her/his team.
  3. You should communicate with your teammates early and begin working on the project. Make sure you break up the project so that each member of the team has a responsibility.
  4. The project is graded at the team level. This means that each team member usually receives the same grade for each such element. However, if a student does not perform at 
      the team level for a given element, that student should NOT expect the same grade as the other team members. This includes both students who choose not to participate to         an appropriate degree and those who choose to be “team hero”.
